ce/intro to web dev (#47)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-2: intro-to-web-development/intro-to-clients-servers-http.md

| HTTP       | A specific protocol that determines how a clients and web servers communicate                                            | "The requests and responses between a web browser and web server must follow HTTP. They are HTTP requests and HTTP responses."                 |
| Request-Response Cycle | The cycle of communication between a client making a request and a server responding back.     | "We encounter the request-response cycle any time we log into a social media website or look up cat gifs on a search engine."                 |

## Client-Server Model

How can two computers send data to each other? One way that two machines can send data to each other is following the _client-server model_.

![Different clients (desktop, smartphone, smart tablet) sending a request to a server and receiving a response back. There are the following horizontal arrows: 1. Arrow from the client to the server labelled "request." 2. Arrow from the server to the client labelled "response."](../assets/intro-to-web-development/intro-to-web-dev_client-server.png)

> The **client-server model** describes a setup commonly between (at least) two different machines. This model states that for any given interaction between two computers, the communication is setup like this:

Reviewer: Do we say commonly here because sometimes it's the same machine? I feel like this adds ambiguity.

Author: yes! I didn't want them to take it too literally since their main exposure will be a client-server on the same machine.  But if you think it's too ambiguous or would raise more questions I can take it out!

Author: ```suggestion
The **client-server model** describes a setup between (at least) two different machines. This model states that for any given interaction between two computers, the communication is setup like this:
```

1. When Meghan is on her computer, she visits bookface.com on her browser Mozilla Firefox.
1. When she clicks the button "Get All Posts," her browser acts as a _client_. The browser makes an HTTP request to the bookface.com servers. The HTTP request has details that say, "The client wants a list of all posts."

> 1. The bookface.com server receives this HTTP request that asks for all posts, and begins creating an HTTP response with this data. The server talks to all of the end-points, the databases, and services it needs to, and then constructs the appropriate HTTP response. Then, it sends the HTTP response back to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The bookface.com server receives this HTTP request that asks for all posts, and needs to create an HTTP response with this data. The server talks to all of the end-points, the databases, and services it needs to, and then constructs the appropriate HTTP response. Then, it sends the HTTP response back to the client.
```

Reviewer: The needs to create made more sense to me since it doesn't begin to create until it talks to the databases and services it needs to that are mentioned in the next line.
